# Pricing_Tutorial
a series of three notebooks that explore Smarter Pricing with IBM's Watson Studio
I finally bit the bullet a couple of years ago. Yes, after much consternation, deliberation and outright dis-ease, I started calling myself at Data Scientist. I know, that's probably weird and unusual, most people are looking for reasons to take that title. I don't know I just never really liked the term. It just seemed weird to me, for many reasons.
For one, Science is defined in many different ways, but fundamentally it is the systematic study of observations from nature. In other words, Science is the study of data. Science without data is not Science. 
That means calling myself a Data Scientist always felt like a Writer saying, "I'm not a writer, I am a word writer." Or, a dentist saying, "I'm not a Dentist, I'm a Tooth Dentist." Or, a comedian saying, "I'm not a Comedian, I'm a Joke Comedian." Or, an airline pilot saying, "I'm not a airline pilot, I'm a airplane airline pilot".  I don't know. I just never liked the title. It took me a long time to take the plunge.
So, now I am a Data Scientist. Before that, I was a Statistician, an analyst, a Researcher and a Manager. I have had many titles, but I swear my job never materially changed. 
My first title, was actually my favorite and not on the list above. My first title was Economist. It's been a long time since I had that title, but it is still my favorite. Mainly because I love economics. The elegance and beauty of the dismal science always has and always will facinate me. Using mathimatical models to understand and predict human behavior is something that is just short of magical. 
This series of articles is a fundamentally about Economics, but is in communicated in the context of modern data science tools. In the first article, I will walk through some basic economics concepts using Watson Studio, python, pandas data frames and a Jupyter notebook. In the second article, I will use real-world retail data to estimate price elasticity of demand and price elasticity of revenue. In the third and final article, I will show how to use data science and economic theory to assign price changes to 291 retail outlets.
